---
title: "Writing about writing"
date: "2020-05-25T16:50:13.850505"
description: ""
views: 420
draft: false
---
Inspiration is trivial. Motivation is hard.

Finding inspiration to start a new coding project, a new company, or
writing an article is easy. At the same time, you do not do those things
every week because that requires motivation and time.

When writing for this blog, I have the following problem.

1.  > I get a cool idea. Starting to write is easy, but making a
    > coherent article is extremely difficult.

2.  > I get a good idea. Starting to write is easy, but you realize that
    > writing about the subject will require actual research.

To battle the problem, I tried to structure the process so that ideas
could become articles effectively. Structuring the process has caused
some issues. Mainly by making makes writing less fun and more of a
chore. At the same time, it makes me a much better writer.

```

That process is:

1.  > Create a mindmap.

2.  > Convert the mindmap into a structure for the text.

3.  > Write the text.

```

This process has helped me output written text, both for this blog and
in my job as a startup CEO. At the same time, there are some issues.

  - > What inner voice should is when writing?

  - > How do you make your writing easy to understand?

  - > At what pace should the information be conveyed?

## 

The first problem with writing is finding your inner voice. Not all
people will find an inner voice for writing. When you have found it it
feels like you just know what to write and writing is super-simple. At
the same time if that voice is not there writing can be close to
imposssible.

For me that voice comes together with actually wanting to write about
something. Like this article was something I wanted to write. It is not
something I'm forcing myself to do. Therefor it's easy to write.

The problem appears when the inner voice does not want to write about a
subject. That has happend to me multiple times when writing school
assignments. It sucks, but that is what writers block is.

That brings me nicely over to my another point that makes writing hard.
What if other people cannot understand your inner voice.

## How do you make your writing easy to understand? 

When writing this article I know that the content makes sense for
myself. I know what ideas I want to communicate and so on. The problem
is that I don't know who is reading this and whether they understand my
writing.

That is the hardest problem when writing because there is no solution.

## How many words should you use?

When writing a huge challenge is how many words to use. Sometimes you
want to say something in one sentence, and some times you want to say
the same thing in an enitre paragraph. For example:

Short:

The Trump precidency has gone better than i feared.

Long:

During the precidental election I was worried about what would happend
if Trump became predicent. After he became presitent bad things have
happend, but htey are much easier to digest than ifeared,

This blog is more of the secound type of paragrpahs,

<span class="underline">In summary: Writing is hard...</span>
